together to be formal partners with all
australian governments on closing the
gap
their headline policy about achieving
equality for our people
all our leaders who have been sitting at
the negotiating table with governments
have either been elected to the boards
of our organizations by
members of the communities that they
come from
or have been appointed by boards
as ceos of their organizations
we have worked with our communities
for decades on matters that are
important to our people
in in the areas of health early
childhood disability education
land rights legal services you name it
we do it
the coalition of peace have brought our
own political agency to the table
through a negotiated
formal arrangement with governments
which have agreed a new national
agreement on closing the gap
it is the first time that our pigs have
come together in this way
and it is the first time
an intergovernmental national agreement
designed to
improve outcomes for aboriginal and
torres strait islander people
has been developed and negotiated
between our representatives and
government
the first time two thousand and twenty
long as we're resilient people i guess
and the very patient people
but you can understand the frustration
that we feel
the national agreement commits this
country
to a new way of working between
governments
and first nations peoples
it is a new way of working that is based
on negotiation and
shared decision making
but it is early days and the months and
the years ahead
will be testing times
for the coalition of peaks we need to
continually
strengthen our own governance and stay
connected with our communities
while at the same time working to keep
ahead of the game
to stay in front of australian
governments
with their vast num
numbers of resources
governments will also need to
demonstrate
that their institutions and
bureaucracies
can embrace the change and reform to
meet the challenges and commitments set
out in the national agreement
lasting change can only come when it is
embedded in the culture of organizations
and as we know traditionally
australian governments are slow
to adapt
the matter of much needed funding and
new funding
for services and supports for our
peoples
remains an issue that is yet to be fully
addressed
by governments
what is different now though
is that we at least have a seat
at the negotiating table on an equal
basis with governments
we believe ultimately a partnership
between community-controlled
organizations
and governments will achieve better
outcomes for our people
where we are both inside and outside
of the tent
i strongly believe charlie would have
been very proud
of what we have achieved in the new
national agreement on closing the gap
he would have thought it wasn't
achievable
when he was still here
he would be glad that we've done it now
in the meantime even if the national
agreement fulfills its promise the
picture
of reform is far from complete
as first nations peoples
we need a a voice
to the commonwealth parliament
to monitor and advise
on making laws with respect to our
people
that is still missing from the political
and the policy landscape
so too is truth telling
and treaties
standing up for what is right
the new partnership with governments and
the work of the coalition of pigs
has not come without its criticism
including from our own people
so the last lesson from charlie's life
i want to share with you today
is to stand up for what you believe is
right
and to seize the opportunities you have
it is probably the hardest lesson to
practice
from charlie's life
from an early age charlie was prepared
to stand up for what he believed in
what he thought was right
over the course of his life he never
backed out
charlie's life led to great gains
for our people in speaking out
his life was not just for himself and
his family
but for our people and ultimately
for australia charlie's approach to life
must continue to inspire us
all to more unified
and purposeful action action
where aboriginal and torres strait
islander people
are collectively taking back control of
our own affairs
as we reflect on the legacy the lessons
and the legacy of charlie's life
of his courage the fire in his belly
he lit in so many of us
i leave with you his own words
he said i am
here today gone tomorrow
and i have only played a small role
like other aboriginal leaders
like other aboriginal leaders do
but we're only passing you know
like ships in the night really
and where the answer is is with the mass
of aboriginal people not with the
individuals
thank you
[Music]
today the us gets the green light to
start using its first
coronavirus vaccine
we have delivered a safe and effective
vaccine in just nine months
this is one of the greatest scientific
accomplishments
in history
[Music]
[Applause]
also ahead residents brace for wild
weather as flood warnings are issued for
parts of new south wales and
officials to do more to steer players
away from doping
and a global effort helps rebuild a
prized collection of christmas
decorations destroyed by bushfire
[Music]
hello and welcome to abc news i'm miriam
corawa
the u.s health regulator has approved
the country's first
coveted vaccine the food and drug
administration has
authorized the use of the fires of
biotech vaccine
with the first inoculations expected
within 24 hours
it marks a significant turning point in
the united states where the pandemic has
killed almost
300 000 people
on behalf of the american people i'd
like to thank all of the brilliant
scientists
technicians doctors and workers who made
this
all possible fisa and moderna have
announced their vaccine is approximately
95 percent effective
far exceeding expectations these
vaccines are also
very safe american citizens participated
in clinical trials that were far
larger than normal and had no serious
side effects
the dedicated and independent experts at
the fda meticulously studied the results
of the trials
and it has now passed the gold standard
of safety and i'm proud to say that we
have made sure that this vaccine will be
free for all americans
through our partnership with fedex and
ups we have already begun
shipping the vaccine to every state and
zip code in the country
the first vaccine will be administered
in less than 24 hours
the governors decide where the vaccines
will go in their state
and who will get them first we want our
senior citizens health care workers and
first responders to be first in line
this will quickly and dramatically
reduce deaths and hospitalizations
we are deeply grateful to every person
who has worked round the clock
on this monumental national project to
save lives
thank you all for your tremendous gifts
to humanity
god bless you god bless the united
states of america
and god bless the world after the u.s
approval by on tech is looking to
dramatically
increase the manufacturing of the
vaccine the company plans to deliver
millions of doses in america in a matter
of weeks
it validates the safety and efficacy of
our approach
it enables us to to provide
to provide many million doses in the
next few weeks
and to the u.s population and
and it adds the next next
next country after canada after uk
bahrain and israel to to the list of
countries with authorization
australia won't be rushing to approve a
coronavirus vaccine despite the faiza
jab getting emergency approval in the
u.s
and the uk the acting chief medical
officer says we're still on track to
roll out a vaccine
next year we have pfizer as one of our
vaccines
that is on order to come to australia
next year and we'll be
indeed going through the reg the full
regulatory process through our own
world-class regulator the therapeutic
goods administration
so quite a different situation in the uk
in canada and now in the u.s
in terms of what's happening with the
pandemic and their need
their emergency in fact to have uh
vaccine available to the population and
starting with priority groups just as we
are planning to do so in australia
with that vaccine but just to stress
this is not full approval that the fda
has given
neither has the uk neither has canada
these are emergency
use authorizations to allow the vaccine
to roll out
also overnight and this is part of the
reason why the fda is confident to give
that
that a that authorisation
the in the new england journal of
medicine one of the
premier journals uh medical journals in
the world
fisa has has reported on their phase
three trial results their interim
results
and it's very encouraging we've heard
some of the
the headlines before but there's more
detail now than we've
uh we've heard before from the company
itself it's peer-reviewed
uh scientific literature and that's how
we move forward uh with the scientific
expertise
so 95 effective effective in old people
and young people
effective in healthy people and people
with chronic disease
and a very good safety profile so
these are interim results we'll get
we'll get more detail and and much more
detail will come to the therapeutic
goods administration
to allow them to make their their own
independent uh assessment of these of
these matters
and give us regulatory approval and that
confidence that we absolutely
need for any new vaccine that it is safe
and effective the weather bureau is
warning conditions
in northeastern new south wales and
southeast queensland will
get worse dangerous weather is expected
tomorrow night
and into monday parts of new south wales
will experience heavy rainfall leading
to potential flash flooding
while parts of queensland's coast can
expect damaging winds heavy rain
abnormally high tides and dangerous surf
low-lying areas in both states are also
at risk of coastal erosion
a lot of rain that we've seen recent in
the last 24 hours and a lot to come
our ses units on the ground are
proactively working with their local
communities to make sure they're aware
of the
aware of the the risks and we're really
urging uh communities to uh to stay
vigilant
um keep an eye and an air out on your
local
weather forecast and heed any advice
that you may be
given most state and territory borders
in australia are open again with
travellers from south australia now
allowed back into queensland
some jurisdictions require
pre-registration for entry
mask wearing and venue check-ins while
others are more relaxed
the only domestic hard border that
remains is between western australia and
south australia
and from today new zealanders are also
welcome in queensland
victoria has recorded its first
confirmed covid cases in the
international traveler since the
revamped hotel quarantine program
resumed this week
five cases have been detected in
quarantine but for a 43rd day in a row
there are no
new locally acquired cases these results
are from more than 8
700 tests detecting positive cases
actually demonstrates that the system is
working and it's doing what it's
supposed to do
and while obviously we'd all prefer that
there were no active cases
we're confident that the changes made to
strengthen the program
will ensure that we manage this in a way
that keeps return
travelers the workers caring for them
and the victorian community as safe as
possible
the prime minister scott morrison has
told a forum of pacific island leaders
australia is committed to
achieving net zero emissions as soon as
possible
he's told the virtual meeting he's
confident australia will be able to meet
paris agreement emissions targets
without
using carryover credits australia has
promised to cut its
2005 emissions levels by up to 28
before 2030
global emissions reductions we know are
essential
for our blue pacific our commitment to
the paris agreement has never wavered
we've made it we're reducing emissions
through practical clean energy
technology australia is very confident
that we will now achieve our 2030 target
without the need to draw on our
carryover credits
that australians earned from
overachieving on our kyoto era
commitments
the government is being warned it needs
to better prepare for a transition to a
green global economy or leave thousands
of people out of work the warning comes
as world leaders took part in virtual
talks
on how to manage a shift to green energy
and address the threats of climate
change
joe rotovsky from the institute for
sustainable futures says the market for
our coal exports
will shrink that demand is going to
disappear eventually so whether it's
because renewables are actually cheaper
than coal
or whether it's just because of climate
targets and
countries aren't going to be importing
our coal when they can't even burn their
own
so we need to start planning for that
transition
and we need to do the industrial
diversification
in the coal areas to really use the
skills that are there
jay rude of it's there townsville's
water supply
is critically low after a pipe failure
residents are being asked to only use
water for drinking and to flush the
toilet
reporter chloe mickey has the details
crews have replaced a pipe that ruptured
at the city's main water treatment plant
yesterday afternoon meantime residents
are being told to only use
water for drinking or flushing the
toilet
that means no showers no washing dishes
or doing laundry and businesses are
being told to conserve as much water as
possible
it's made it difficult for residents to
cool off during sweltering conditions
today
the extreme restrictions have been in
place since yesterday afternoon
and are expected to remain in place
overnight a council spokesperson
says it's expected to take at least 24
hours to replenish the city's critically
low water supplies
but that will only commence once testing
is successful
chloe shimiki abc news townsville
a man is being treated for suspected
spinal injuries after two yachts
collided
in sydney the boats were around a
kilometer offshore near cronulla in the
city's south
marine rescue towed the yacht and the
injured crew member back to shore
and he was transferred to a waiting
ambulance
[Music]
[Applause]
the u.s supreme court has dismissed
president donald trump's bid to overturn
the u.s election a lawsuit filed why
texas's attorney general sought to throw
out voting results in
four pivotal states the justices refused
to let texas file the lawsuit
challenging mr biden's wins in
pennsylvania georgia michigan
and wisconsin the order clears those
states to cast their votes for mr biden
in the electoral college
next week uk
will cut the period of self-isolation
from 14 to 10 days
the change will apply to people who've
been in contact with those who've tested
positive for coronavirus
or to travelers quarantining after
returning from abroad
the new rules are already in place in
wales and will take effect throughout
the rest of the uk
on monday contact tracing in action
here in peterborough local authority
staff going door to door
to find people who've been recent
contacts of those who test positive
they're following up after initial
attempts by the national test and trace
service
the numbers that they've obviously been
given they can't contact them on so
we just have to make that final call to
their house
for those contacted by the tracers
there's better news
they won't have to self-isolate for so
long after a review by health officials
of scientific studies
all of those combined together show that
the tail end of infectiousness if you
like
is the one where your least an
individual's least likely to transmit
infection
so allowing somebody out of
self-isolation
a short time earlier than that is a
reasonable balance between
managing the risk to the public but
allowing
us not to intrude on their lives
the self-isolation period will come down
from 14 days to 10
that already happens in wales it'll
apply to contacts of those testing
positive
and people coming into the uk and
needing to quarantine
it'll take effect on monday though if
someone's already started a 14-day
isolation
it'll now be ten if the r number is
above
one it shows the virus is accelerating
today's update shows it's just below one
though back where it was two weeks ago
suggesting no clear trend
though there are variations around the
uk the latest survey of community
infections by the office for national
statistics
suggests that in england one in 115
people had the virus last week
with case rates coming down in most
areas though they were on the increase
in london
and the east of england in wales it was
one in 120 with the virus
with increases in recent weeks in
scotland it was also 120
with case rates relatively stable in
northern ireland
one in 230 had the virus with continued
declines in case rates
kovid marshals are patrolling some city
streets including birmingham's
reminding people that social distancing
rules are as important as ever
and that the virus is still a threat
and the uk looks set to leave the eu
without a trade deal in just under three
weeks time
while brexit officially took place in
january the uk remains part of the eu
single market
and customs union but as the transition
period
comes to an end talks have reached an
impasse
with both sides unable to agree on
arrangements to cover
more than one trillion dollars in annual
trade
argument today is about uh the terms
on which we trade with the european
union and
the issue at the moment is that they
want
the talks in brussels are
dead lodge because they want to keep us
locked into
a system by which every time they change
their laws we have to change ours
we don't think that's a brilliant idea
a melbourne mathematician and two fellow
cryptologists have been officially
recognized by the fbi
for solving a 50 year old cryptic
message
written by a notorious serial killer in
the u.s
at least five people were killed by the
zodiac killer in the 1960s and the
killer's identity remains
unknown dr samuel blake is that
mathematician i spoke with him
a little earlier we tried several
hundred thousand
incorrect ways of solving the cipher and
just by chance we happen to sort of
stumble upon a fragment of
of how it could be solved and using that
fragment we reverse engineered the
the entire solution and uh got the the
entire message out from the zodiac
so what was that all important message
that took so much work to find
so i mean i'm not i'm not an expert on
on what the zodiac had to say i managed
to help to to get that message out um
it doesn't reveal his identity it
doesn't give a lot of clues
to his identity i think more what it
does
is the the method that he was able to
use to create that
uh that cipher may help
uh track down who he is and when you say
we obviously you weren't alone
in this process you worked with at least
two other people
at this point of because it's more than
50 years
since that message was first published
so just take us through
how you work together um and who was
involved with
with doing this yeah so
david ranchack is from the united states
and he
has been working on trying to solve this
cipher in his spare time for 15 years
which is a herculean effort i i saw some
of the videos that he put online
promoting analysis that he'd done of
this cipher
and i thought they were excellent and so
i reached out to him in
i think about march of this year and it
was sort of a way of
getting through the the melbourne covert
lockdown uh was to to play around with
this in my spare time
amazing and was there any special
technology that
helped to finally i mean you talked
about reverse engineering
um when you finally found a couple of
pieces of the puzzle
yeah so uh what you can see on the
screen now is a program called azdecrypt
which is written by
a guy from belgium called yale van ike
and
that was a central piece of technology
that we used
and then i used the spartan
supercomputer at melbourne university
to run some of our candidate reading
directions through the cipher in order
to work out
which was the right direction to look
through the cipher and so it was a
it was a large problem of trial and
error and
um with this i mean what was it that
made the code
so difficult to break
it was a combination of two things so it
was a homophonic substitution cipher so
uh letters in the uh the text that the
zodiac was encrypting
is replaced with multiple symbols but
then
the the reading direction that we're
normally used to is you know left to
right top to bottom on a
page uh whereas what the zodiac did in
this in this cipher was to
to write it out down the diagonals of
the
of the page so he went uh
one one row down two columns across one
row down two columns across
in order to write it out and trying to
stumble across that correct
enumeration was uh was one of the main
difficulties here
and as you point out um this is just a
step towards hopefully solving the case
it's still an active case so so how do
you feel about being involved in
something like this and uh are you
working on any further clues which might
help people finally
solve the identity yeah i think the
chances that we were going to be
at all involved in this were so small
because the chances of solving this
after 50 years was
next to next to zero and so being able
to play a role in this
is fantastic um you know i hope
this decryption may lead to uh
you know better narrowing down who this
person is um
but i guess we'll have to wait and see
in regards to
the other two ciphers that he sent we're
we're looking at those to see if there's
ways in which we can
we can use the work that we've done on
the
340 cipher to to solve those but none of
that is clear at this stage
suspended rugby league player bronson
sherry will begin fighting a four-year
ban for doping at
the nrl appeals tribunal this month it's
a situation former melbourne storm wing
at sandor earl knows all too well
after serving a similar ban he's urging
governing bodies to do more to support
young athletes amid concerns from
medical experts that gym culture
is normalizing performance and image
enhancing drug use
bronson sherry had the world at his feet
during his superb debut season last year
[Applause]
it's a dream beginning for the home team
that dream came crashing down when he
was suspended for testing positive to
banned anabolic steroids in may
the recently retired melbourne storm
winger sandor earl was banned for four
years for doping in 2013.
there's no doubt there's pressure as a
young athlete you really want to succeed
and he was probably in a position where
he's trying to be the best possible
player he can come coming under injury
clouds and having to go through that
period and it just sets you back and
yeah it is tough he believes sherry
could still have a bright future
even if his four-year ban is upheld
bronson it's a tough
period in his life and uh once he gets
through this moment it's a bit of a rip
the band-aid he can sort of move on with
his own life
and um you know there's no doubt that
he'll be able to make a comeback if
that's truly what he wants regardless of
the success of sherry's appeal
some experts argue athletes aren't
thinking about the adverse health
effects of taking banned drugs
cardiac effects are seen you can have
diabetes develop from the use of human
growth hormone you can have liver
failure
including tumors or cancers caused in
rats so they've never actually been
licensed for human use
there's a concern that the body
beautiful gym culture is
normalizing doping even in school sport
where use of multiple supplements really
does
act as a permissive gateway to using
performance or image enhancing
prohibited substances bronson sherry
faces the nrl appeals tribunal before
christmas but it will be weeks before
his fate is decided
cronulla continues to pay his wage of
around 20
000 a month and is desperate to move on
in the new year colley hart abc news
will pukowski is unavailable for
selection for australia's first test
against india after sustaining a
concussion earlier this week
the 22 year old was expected to make his
test debut in adelaide
after his outstanding effort in the
sheffield shield
this season his victorian teammate
marcus harris has been elevated to
australia's squad
another potential debutant cameron green
could miss out on the test after he also
sustained a concussion
yesterday at the scg harry conway was
also subbed out of the australia a game
ahead
after a head knock practice has wrapped
up at the abu dhabi grand prix
valtteri bottas was the fastest in the
final practice session of the day batas
finished just ahead of his mercedes
team-mate lewis hamilton
who is returning to the track after
contracting coronavirus
max verstappen was third fastest with
australia's
daniel ricardo coming in ninth kimi
raikkonen walked away unharmed
after his engine caught on fire late in
the session
earlier in the day michael schumacher's
son mick took part in his maiden formula
one session
coming in 18th fastest for us
yeah i i i think i would describe it as
uh it went pretty smooth
um we didn't have any major problems i
didn't the spin or anything so that
that's good
um obviously it's still me trying to get
used to the car as well
it's it's such a big step from f2 um to
f1 so i'm happy everything went well
but uh i mean obviously you see how how
much technology has
advanced throughout the years and a
short time period obviously
um so it's good to see the evolution of
f1 cars
west ham have fought back from gold down
to defeat leeds 2-1
in the premier league today the hammers
gave away an early penalty just
six minutes into the match the visitors
saved the initial penalty but the
goalkeeper didn't
have a foot on the goal line so leads
were awarded a second attempt
which they converted west ham quickly
levelled the score through thomas societ
angela ogbonner then scored the win in
the 80th minute
to move west ham up to fifth on the
ladder
on the satellite image a low and
associated troughs in the west are
producing
showers and isolated storms troughs are
also triggering rain and storms about
the top end
northeastern new south wales and
southeast queensland
looking around the country for tomorrow
in queensland wind and rain
increasing with possible storms in the
southeast showers clearing and very warm
in the northeast
mostly cloudy in the southwest mainly
fine in the northwest
heavy showers windy and cooled in the
northeast of new south wales showers in
the southeast
cloudy and warmer in the west to
overcast with the chance of a shower in
the act
to victoria cloudy and warm for most
parts of the state
tasmania expects to be mostly cloudy in
the south cool in the north
in south australia mostly cloudy and
very warm to hot in the southeast and
central districts
showers and storms in the west wet and
windy in the north
to wa showers easy and cool to mild in
the southwest mostly sunny and warm in
the south
showers and warmer in the north for the
northern territory showers and storms in
the northwest
arnhem and interior isolated showers
and mild to warm in the south now to
monday's forecast for the capital cities
heavy showers for brisbane
sydney a possible shower canberra cloudy
sunny in melbourne
and hobart adelaide in perth mainly fine
and a possible thunderstorm for darwin
for families who lost everything in last
summer's bushfires the approach
of christmas is a bittersweet time but
crafters from around the world
are providing some festive season to you
the loss of one family's
decades-old collection of christmas
decorations in the kobargo bushfire has
inspired an international project
to rebuild christmas traditions with
hand-crafted decorations
as she helped clean up her parents
property after the cabargo bushfire
juanita waters made a poignant discovery
they had a metal trunk full of all of
their christmas decorations which they'd
really only just put away a couple of
days before the fire hit
the family treasures reduced to charcoal
and ash
inspired a call out to crafters to make
christmas decorations for families who
lost
everything last summer a lot of people
were making
a whole box of amazingly intricate
things that must have taken so much time
close to 700 crafters from across
australia
and the world sent decorations i'm going
to get a christmas tree and decorate it
now something
christmas is so important to people and
even though we did have christmas
because the fire didn't happen until new
year's eve every joyful memory that
everybody had had with christmas with
their families and things was wiped out
it's going to be filled with a lot of
really brutal memories but i hope that
it is a time of renewal
for a community on the long road to
rebuild their lives
it's a chance to revive family rituals
well every christmas since we lived here
it was a tradition to go and get a gum
tree better than bloody
what do you call them never call them
trees pine trees yeah
australia come in with six kids and we
just built from
nothing so now we've got nothing again
we start getting nothing
just be careful the kindness of
strangers
is a silver lining after a very tough
year
vanessa milton abc news cabargo
that is the latest from abc news
remember you can keep up to date
action news.abc.net.you and on abc eye
view
i'm miriam corawa stay with us the mix
is up next thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
know the tradition cultural bird brings
the land back to life
know the reason the most important thing
to me as a gun dungeon person is
protecting country for future
generations
know the languages reporting from our
country lara kia country
reporting from ghana country reporting
from pinematic from larakir country i'm
on your toyota country from nepaluna
lutrowita for abc news know the meaning
i am this country this country is me
know the story
with abc news welcome to oneplus one i'm
stan grant starting monday
a life-changing moment i really lost
myself it felt like a real failure
and the road to acceptance sometimes you
just need to ride the wave how did you
great question she's been with me and
allowed me to find myself
stan grant's one plus one monday abc and
eye view
dear humans we need to talk there's
pollution in my air
and plastic in my oceans my trees and
animals
are disappearing and my temperature is
rising my climate is changing
i think i can fix it but i can't fix it
on my own
small changes can have a big impact and
right now
we need to take care of each other
signed your planet
a season of stories exploring our
environment your planet on abc
it's been a year like no other
unprecedented
unimaginable unfathomable there's only
wednesday december 23 on abc in eye view
this week on news breakfast wonder woman
herself gal gadot will tell us about her
latest installment of the superhero
franchise
and tis the season for scams
unfortunately but
we'll tell you how to spot them so you
don't end up falling for a christmas
fraud
see you there
[Music]
we just wanted to say that we're excited
that uh rock is back
rock is back yeah let's let's get to a
peeps
for most people it was their first time
back at a public venue there was
definitely
a collective acknowledgement of what
this year has been
there's 38 acrobats at home on jobkeeper
making a work of scale that we haven't
seen in this country for a very long
time
[Music]
things have been very quiet on the
streets of melbourne this year but
that's all about to change
thanks to melbourne music week which is
about to run for three months
over the summer so i'm going to chat to
four melbourne acts in four iconic
melbourne venues
to see how they're feeling about the
return of live music
my name is alara i am a yorioro
woman and musician and today we are
at section eight in melbourne city so
we're andrew where we
[Music]
using a double bass and a loop station
alara's storytelling is inspired by
ancient oral traditions
she played alongside culture revolves
for the festival's opening night
i'm super excited about melbourne music
week it's
a huge deal i think for melbourne to be
celebrating and having so many artists
and people coming back into the city
after such a long time of no live music
we go
forward she
goes round and round
i played a couple of live streams um
during the year
i don't like playing live streams i've
decided but at the same time
as an artist it's like there hasn't been
many options to keep
sharing your music cultural change will
solve the climate change
you know i always feel like performing
is a celebration but it doesn't really
feel very celebratory doing it
on your own in a room with no one there
i play
way better when i'm with an audience and
when i'm sharing
back what i'm receiving from them in
that moment in time
forward she goes
round and round
[Music]
i'm adelina and we are here at the
melbourne
town hall that organ is gigantic
oh my god i'm going to be doing a gig
here what have i got myself
into australian rock icon adelita
solo artist and the lead singer of magic
dirt has a gig coming up here in
february
sharing the stage with the largest grand
romantic organ in the southern
hemisphere
it's a pretty prestigious gig to get
and i just jumped at it i was like of
course i would love to play in the town
hall
so yeah i think it's a real badge of
honour i think people that come to this
space they expect a really special show
and that's what they get and it's so
grand and has so much character
it just seeps into you i think you sort
of get the energy from the place
it's huge and first one back it's like
here you go here's your first show back
adelie has spent the year working on her
third solo album
some of which will be sampled at the
town hall yeah i love playing live
that's my life you know i love
connecting with the fans and
you know backstage or behind the scenes
i love chatting to them so it's huge for
me
it's my mom
[Applause]
i always knew music and art was
important but you just realize how
important it is when people miss it so
much and they crave it and
they're hungry for it and they're lonely
without it and all the feels everything
that's happening with that so
it just makes you realize how important
art is for the soul
[Music]
i'm jenny from cable ties and we are at
the forum
and i'm shauna from cable ties and that
is correct we're actually at the forum
yeah to play at the forum at any time
would be
incredibly exciting and kind of
overwhelming but yeah for it to be the
first
show back after such a long time and for
a band especially rock and roll band
who's normally used to playing at sweaty
venues with sticky carpet to play at
this incredible beautiful space
with a huge stage and a monster sound
system it's
yeah it's really something really very
very special
this was meant to be a big year for
cable ties with the band due to appear
at south by south west
and extensively tour their second album
we got signed to
merge records overseas and we had a us
and um a uk and europe tour planned we
were two days away from getting on a
plane and suddenly it was like
all over yeah i mean mentally as well it
was
pretty rough
we have always said that we're a live
band
everything we write we write to play
live everything
that we do we're thinking about doing it
to an audience
it's really the core of who we are as a
band and
while we could get through the last year
doing some streams and doing the odd
thing you know it was
just a time to kind of get through until
we could do this again because
it's uh what we live for really
i didn't see it coming my name is blake
scott and we're at the curtin hotel in
carleton
yeah i've spent a lot of late nights
here and seen some amazing music
and we've done lots of shows here over
the years of
bobby hawk used to have a beer here the
curtin one of australia's oldest pubs
will host blake scott former front man
of the peep temple
who's released his first solo album this
i thought i'd be doing a year more shows
than one in 2020.
you know whenever there's a bushfire
or a flood or people need to sort of
band together and raise money or
you know work for little to no wages
they call upon
the music industry and the people
involved in it and the entertainment
industry
and so it was interesting to see um when
covert hit that they were the first
people abandoned
but i found the community just to be so
positive in regard to okay so how are we
going to continue how are we going to
get back doing what we love doing
these might be the first gigs back but
they hopefully won't be the last
there's going to be a new level of
gratitude for seeing live music i think
it'll be good for people to be patient
with musicians
yeah i think everyone might be a bit
orcs but i think it's like getting on a
bike
you know after a long time just sort of
get on you go
and then you go oh yeah i remember i
remember this we just wanted to say that
we're excited that uh
rock is back rock is back definitively
vampire was due to playing at coachella
she was breaking out
festival directors in australia have
been able to take great advantage of
and we may never quite get the same
opportunity again
if you're gonna eat fruit like harry
does at the beach you might get thrown
out
enjoy your fruit but not too much
[Music]
the human need to be together is
extraordinary and we'd do anything to
kind of find
ways to be together
suddenly touch became radical or it is
radical
even now we might hug each other in
private but if i give someone a hug
in public i feel like i am doing the
wrong thing
after the year that we had where we
couldn't be out
we couldn't be in public we couldn't be
together we couldn't touch
this performance allowed you to do all
of those things
in a safe way this year our human need
for togetherness and physical contact
was
achingly tested like never before
and here these distinctly 20 20 emotions
and challenges
are being explored in a performance
piece by artist shireen
fard staged at the sydney opera house as
part of antidote festival
it involved participants one by one
facing the artist through a sheet of
plastic
and silently mimicking her movements
proxy for a thousand eyes is the title
the proxy is the cameras and they were
proxy for an audience the opera house
usually when we congregate there we're
observing
a performance on a stage this was the
antithesis of that
thinking about how you can perform
social distancing
i'd been thinking about those
media images of people
attending to their loved ones through
windows
in aged care facilities where they would
kind of come up
and just touch the glass pane
and then the images of people in
hospitals
all covered up in the plastic so that
they could wrap their arms around a
loved one
that were created with the arts yeah
some of those images
they broke me i think in my work
i realised photography video working
with other people
the way in which i formulate my ideas is
always around a kind of physical
closeness
connection intimacy with others so
suddenly i couldn't
make work or exhibit work
having the insight into what i couldn't
do
i had to really rethink what i could do
and so the performance at the opera
house is like an
inverted touch work how we can
kind of perform touch but still draw
attention to
the risks that poses
[Music]
what was the array of people who were
taking part
and what was the different experience of
connecting with them in the way you did
each person was distinctly different i
mean firstly
everyone's face it's like you know
really looking into someone's face
at close range but then also the point
at which they met me through the plastic
how much of their body weight they were
willing to press in
how playful they were how nervous they
were
it was interesting my aunt performed
with me
and you know she's never done anything
like this before and i've known her
since i was eight
and it occurred to me when i was looking
into her
eyes that we had never experienced
a moment like this and i thought that
that was interesting that even
with people that you're intimate with
that this was like a next level
intimacy it allowed us to be together in
a way that
we wouldn't ordinarily be outside of art
how did you feel at the end i felt
like i'd been to heathrow and back in 24
hours
i had this strange jet lag
[Music]
you know i'm almost 47 i don't expect
at this age to be having new experiences
necessarily
but that was certainly a new experience
[Music]
why do something like this as a
performance artwork
why get people in a space coming and
smooshing their bodies against each
other through plastic
as art being part of an artwork it's
exciting
it's very different experience of art
of standing back and looking at
something
with covert when you speak to people
they find it very difficult to put into
words
what they've just been through with the
performance i think it's your body
actually enacting something that you've
been through it's
touch the thing that we haven't been
able to do
it's almost so simple maybe it's so
obvious that we miss it but that's what
i felt like people wanted to be part of
something at the end of this year and
a lot of the responses at the end were
oh god that was the best way to end this
[Music]
year
hello i'm eloise and for our final
filter chat of the year
we're discussing the upcoming festival
season
and how it's all gonna work this year we
saw a swift flood of festival
cancellations due to covert 19
followed by some innovative attempts to
take some online
now as we move towards 2021 the big
festival names around the country
are getting ready to come back and give
us the irl
culture we've been craving but of course
there's still a big
covety barrier between us and beloved
scenes like this
working painstakingly behind the scenes
to work out how we gather
arts lovers on mass ndp's covert safety
regulations
are festival organizers among those
joining us for this week's filter
is director of sydney festival wesley
enoch
rome adelaide director ian scobee and
peter noble director of byron bay's
blues fest hello hello
thank you so much for making time today
to have a chat
bit of a weird year yes understatement
so we just need to acknowledge that
festivals in the coming year are going
to feel a bit different
with women adelaide we've had to
significantly reinvent the festival
because of health restrictions and you
know i was wary of what our public's
reaction was
would be to that and to to absolutely
every single one has just been so
pleased that we are actually going ahead
this is going to happen it just means
that we're having a different type of
experience
for me the festivals are really showing
our values as much as anything else what
do we really
value about our communities and what
we're trying to achieve
and making sure that audiences feel that
they're invited back into things that
that they were sometimes shut out from
what do you think peter
we've already sold nearly 50 000 entries
and blues fest is ready and it may be
seated
it may be outdoors and it may not be it
may not be as many stages
as you've had in the past it may not be
for us
over a hundred thousand people coming
maybe a lot of you seven
but we're ready are we going to be
dancing
it is a seated event but people who can
choose to stand and
dance in their seat as long as they stay
within the proximity of their seat if we
were to mandate that everyone had to
wear a mask
but they don't have to wear a mask in
other places
how do we make sure that we're not out
of kilter and we don't become the fun
police
that we look like we're stopping people
from having fun
you sit down sit down wear your mask you
know
that we need to make sure that people
can still experience the joy of the
festival
first goal of the grandfather that
sporting events have been coming and
going and large numbers where's that
sport that's different is that sport and
like arts and culture we've had to be
we're following the rules all the time
and we're we're following them we're not
arguing against them
and i think what i'm hearing peter what
you're saying peter is this sense of
well at some point do we have to stand
up and go actually this can happen
and we can do it safely but trust us but
i get it we have to wait in line
but now that i hear that looks like
canvas is going to happen in melbourne
as i'm hearing the formula one grand
prix
will be going ahead with unreserved
seating
we've got to start going it's our turn
have you found during this time that
there is unique or different access to
australian artists because they're not
touring the world at the moment
if i look at blue's fist i go gee tell
us exit i've been able to book like the
tesco brothers
john butler xavier cat empire they were
all due to be on tour
sample was due to play at coachella she
was breaking out
ziggy alberts start the tour overseas
people like that
[Music]
festival directors in australia have
been able to take great advantage of
and we may never quite get the same
opportunity again
gravity now the myths with their show
the pulse they do at sydney festival in
the adelaide festival
and here's a company that's got maybe
three four companies touring the world
at any one time
there's 38 acrobats at home
on jobkeeper making a work of scale that
we haven't seen in this country for a
very long time
congratulations on midnight oil ian i
think
that's a wonderful well that that has
that has been a kind of seven or eight
year conversation and and
one of the great things about it is is
to to have the combination of
yeah the oils and also the macarata
project at this time
um you know it's like when our nation is
finally going to wake up to the need for
proper recognition in the constitution
is that that's my dream
what festivals are you being excited by
that are being announced around
australia
woodford folk festival that's my
favorite festival in the world
but i'm really keen to look at
like our peers especially at adelaide
festival and perth festival
that are coming kind of and how we are
collaborating over time
not just in the next 12 months but also
the next two years to three years
the great sadnesses that i have is that
some of the greatest festivals i've ever
been to in my life
are not going to be happening and some
of those festivals have rescheduled
and some of them i fear we won't ever
see again your festival is whoa
madelaine which is by name
and nature a world music festival that's
a bit challenging in
2020 how different is your festival
looking this year
well to pick up western's point it's we
can't bring in international artists and
we really had to focus on a program that
would
be drawn entirely from artists within
australia
and you know if you just look at the
recent the most recent aria awards
the the diversity on that bill speaks
for itself
both audiences and artists need
festivals to step up
and be part of a a contribution so our
almost six million dollar kind of
programming budget is going into
the hands of australian artists and
venues and companies
to help them through this very tricky
time and i think that's important
to to focus on too that it's that
with 2020 the dumpster fire of the year
we've coming through this
and artists have done it really really
tough and what role
can festivals play in supporting them
and and in that inviting all of
australia to help support australian
artists
wesley how have you got creative and
kind of shaken up
what sydney festival looks like so for
me
some of the innovations are not really
innovations at all they're
old-fashioned things that we've always
done let's focus on outdoor performance
work so
we're building a performance venue
called the headland at barangaroo
headland
but also this notion of not spending the
money on
the the you know fences and security and
keeping people
out but actually having very clear ways
of inviting people in
just looking at how we organize
ourselves differently around this covert
environment is
is fun it's actually it's it's good
because the kind of problem solving
that creative minds really relish you
know
as you've all been developing your
festivals have you been looking around
the world and going
oh okay they're doing this in that time
they're doing that or
is australia in a really good position
there aren't many festivals being held
around the world i mean look at
the situation in america and uk and
europe is terrifying
canadians were asking us about like they
think that we're at least six
to eight months ahead of where they will
be
and so they're looking to us as what are
the some some of the things that we're
prototyping what are the things that
we're doing
as a way of responding when they come
out into their summer festival mode
touchwood it's it's a much better
situation than they are now
um and there's a real sense of
positivity about what's going on in
australia and how we're dealing with it
in lots of different ways
and you know in new zealand right now
i'm told by people who present festivals
there they're paying more for talent
than they have ever had to because the
new zealand major acts now
they've got the market all of themselves
and they're charging for it
why are you working so hard to have
festivals up and running
it diminishes our country if we don't
have moments where arts and culture are
raised up
and i think that in the same way that we
thought we think that sport is such an
important part of our identity
arts and culture are part of that too
and celebrating ourselves
especially after this terrible year
because i wouldn't know what what else
to do
i mean the music business i was 15 years
old right now
how old i am but i've been a better more
than all you guys
and it's like it's what you do i'm very
glad we have people like you guys
in the jobs who relish in the challenge
of a situation of organizing festivals
in this covered time so thanks for your
effort and um
as to the rest of australia and all the
excellent festivals that are
lineups are coming out week by week at
the moment so thank you everyone
from your different parts of us for
joining us to talk festivals
uh sugars what are you saying festival
world
yeah it's good
great thanks thanks all bye
[Music]
hi i'm donnie bernay and this is my
covert safe
summer playlist
2020 it's the been fire of years with a
few ibises kind of waiting around
pecking for the scraps
it can't get worse hopefully i've come
along and i'm going to provide you with
some motivational songs to get you ready
to enjoy your summer
[Music]
olivia newton john physical it's a
classic track
we've gone through winter we've been
inside some people have uh better
themselves
other people not so much
for me personally i enjoy a bit of
jogging a bit of cycling
a bit of rock climbing a bit of
abseiling
we all get physical in different ways
whether it's through exercise
or through interpersonal love
relationships
and that's why physical is on my covert
safe summer playlist
[Music]
the police don't stand so close to me
it's a very uh fitting song for these
unusual and unprecedented times we live
in at the moment
i'll be getting a go to my favorite
lasagna joint i'm wearing my lasagna
maybe little focaccia for later on and
there's somebody like right here like
hey
don't stand so close to me so it's a
good mantra to remember
to keep all our numbers down if there's
anybody that you really need to listen
to
to get this message it is the police so
we thought we'd include this song
rather than speaking to the police we'd
have the police
telling us back up buddy
it's coming into summer we're going to
eat lots of fruit we're going to have
delicious stone fruit coming soon
watermelons are just just about right
now mangoes i've had a few of those the
other day
there i always encourage
people of all ages to eat fruit better
just and watch how you eat it i mean if
you're gonna eat fruit
like harry does at the beach it's a
family zone
you might get thrown out
enjoy your fruit but not too much
[Music]
so next up we have holiday by madonna we
can't go on our overseas holidays but
the good news is
canberra is open for business
[Music]
i mean you've got new parliament house
all parliament house
national art gallery that's a huge one
and of course cockington green gardens i
mean
come on that place is a real rager
[Music]
you're not going to santorini come to
canberra they sure could use your
business
and uh just to finish up this is from my
new album and uh
it's gonna be on every single summer
playlist this song is all about
self-improvement and moving up in the
world
can only get better after this so let's
all move up together
okay
and what am i gonna do this summer i'm
gonna hit the beach a few times but uh
i've got some beautiful babies growing
some nice cherry tomatoes and uh
intend to them enjoy the fruits my labor
remember we're still in a pandemic and
safety doesn't take a holiday
it's like enough for me
[Music]
you're so overwhelmed
you're so off the right
[Music]
spicks and specs returns for a special
episode celebrating music of the 2010s
whether you like to shout geronimo as
you swing from the chandelier or you'd
rather shake it off and get lucky
we've got a show that'll hit you like a
wrecking ball
guests include kate miller heike vance
joy claire hooper and luke mcgregor
with team captains miff warhurst and
alan bro
see you very soon australia the specs
and specs 2010 special
sunday december 20 on abc and iview
grandstand summer of cricket continues
live and ad-free
as australia face off against fierce
rivals
behind every test all the rivalry
called live at the grounds grandstand
summer of cricket
live on abc radio and the abc listen app
whenever you want wherever you are know
the story with abc news
the most trusted news source get
breaking news updates with live
notifications
plus the latest news from australia and
around the world if the situation
deteriorates the hard border comes back
go to news.abc.net.edu or download the
news app
for those of you who haven't thrown out
your 2020 bingo cards did you have this
one
in a year where everything has been
unexpected join us to make sense of it
all
when boris johnson is on the phone
saying right now i'm sorry to bring this
up we listen to the experts when it
comes to the pandemic but we're not
listening to the experts when it comes
to climate change this is the difficult
thing for women middle age
we have hugged them to look forward to
proud millennial right here i already
grew all this grace
i'm just gonna hang here the drum
weeknights at six on
abc and iview this week on news
breakfast wonder woman herself gal gadot
will tell us about her latest
installment of the superhero franchise
and tis the season for scams
unfortunately but
we'll tell you how to spot them so you
don't end up falling for a christmas
fraud
see you there
to begin using its first coronavirus
vaccine
we have delivered a safe and effective
vaccine in just nine months
this is one of the greatest scientific
accomplishments in history
[Music]
also ahead flood warnings issued as
parts of new south wales and queensland
brace for wild weather calls for
sporting officials
to do more to steer players away from
doping
and a global effort helps rebuild a
prized collection of christmas donations
destroyed by bushfire
[Music]
good evening and welcome to abc news i'm
mariam salve
the first doses of the fisa vaccine are
due to be rolled out in the united
states within days
the food and drug administration has
approved the vaccinations use
this after the white house heaped public
and private pressure on the health
regulator
nearly 300 000 americans have died of
the virus
and there are high hopes that
vaccinations will slow a devastating
third wave
correspondent greg jennett reports from
washington
swabs syringes and saline at the ready
but not a drop
of fizer's vaccine just yet
it's on ice under lock and key we only
have about 90 seconds to unload the box
and get it in the freeze
until it's approved for release in
hospitals
impatience is palpable at the white
house
[Applause]
donald trump's got dr stephen hahn and
the food and drug administration he
heads
right in his sights it's a big old slow
turtle he complains get the damn
vaccines
out now dr hahn and the last jab
stop playing games and start saving
lives
the president then ordered his chief of
staff mark meadows to follow up with a
phone call
just like last week we had a very robust
discussion and and i know that term
sometimes is loaded robust
only this time it's reported stephen
hahn's job was
threatened if he didn't hurry up with
final approval the fda boss
put it more politely that he was
encouraged to work
expeditiously you should have confidence
in this
there is no political influence these
are first-rate scientists
the fda's fisa approval walked the line
between emergency assessment
and proper process but it did come
through in its own good
time injections will start next week we
have delivered a safe and effective
vaccine in just
nine months this is one of the greatest
scientific accomplishments
in history it will save millions of
lives and soon end the pandemic
once and for all america's moment of
truth is coming a year of public health
missteps misinformation
and outright denial of this pandemic has
brought the country to this point with
its 15
million infections the vaccine and
others to follow
represent its best shot at success but
even that
can't be guaranteed with public
skepticism towards
immunization and a rollout plan
requiring the biggest
mobilization of resources outside
wartime
there's still much that can go wrong
from here
greg jennett abc news washington
well australia won't be rushing to
approve a coronavirus vaccine despite
the pfizer jab getting emergency
approval in both the u.s and the uk
the acting chief medical officer says
we're still on track to roll out a
vaccine
next year we have pfizer as one of our
vaccines
that is on order to come to australia
next year and we'll be
indeed going through the reg the full
regulatory process through our own
world-class regulator the therapeutic
goods administration
so quite a different situation in the uk
in canada and now in the us
in terms of what's happening with the
pandemic and their need
their emergency in fact to have
vaccine available to the population and
starting with priority groups just as we
are planning to do so
in australia with that vaccine but just
to stress this is not full approval that
the fda has given neither has the uk
neither has canada these are emergency
use authorizations
to allow the vaccine to roll out also
overnight and this is part of the reason
why the fda is confident to give that
uh that that uh authorization
uh the in the new england journal of
medicine one of the
premier journals medical journals in the
world uh fisa has
has reported on their phase three trial
results their interim results
and it's very encouraging uh we've heard
some of the the headlines before but
there's more detail now than we've we've
heard before from the company itself
it's peer-reviewed scientific literature
and that's how we move
forward with the scientific expertise so
effective effective in old people and
young people effective in healthy people
and people with chronic disease and a
very good
safety profile so these are interim
results we'll get we'll get more detail
and and much more detail will come to
the therapeutic goods administration
to allow them to make their their own
independent uh assessment of these of
these matters
and give us regulatory approval and that
confidence that we absolutely need
for any new vaccine that it is safe
and effective the weather bureau is
warning conditions in northeast new
south wales and southeast queensland
will worsen
over the weekend dangerous weather is
expected tomorrow night and into monday
parts of new south wales will experience
heavy rainfall
leading to potential flash flooding
while parts of queensland's coast will
see
damaging winds heavy rain abnormally
high tides
and dangerous surf low-lying areas in
both states are also at risk of coastal
erosion
the new south wales ses is warning
residents in affected areas
to remain vigilant a lot of rain that
we've seen recent in the last 24 hours
and a lot to come
our ses units on the ground are p
proactively working with their local
communities to make sure they're aware
of the
aware of the the risks and we're really
urging uh communities to uh
to stay vigilant um keep an eye and an
air out on your local
weather forecast and heed any advice
that you may be given
most state and territory borders in
australia are open again
with travelers from south australia now
allowed back into queensland
some jurisdictions require
pre-registration for entry
math squaring and venue check-ins while
others are more relaxed
now the only domestic hard border that
remains is between western australia and
south australia
and from today new zealanders are also
welcome in queensland
victoria has recorded its first
confirmed covert cases in international
travelers
since the revamped hotel quarantine
program resumed
this week five cases have been detected
in quarantine
but for the 43rd day in a row there are
no new
locally acquired cases these results are
from more than 8
700 tests detecting positive cases
actually demonstrates that the system is
working and it's doing
what it's supposed to do and while
obviously we'd all prefer that there
were no active cases
we're confident that the changes made to
strengthen the program
will ensure that we manage this in a way
that keeps return
travelers the workers caring for them
and the victorian community as safe as
possible
the prime minister scott morrison has
told a forum of pacific island leaders
that australia is committed to achieving
net zero emissions
as soon as possible he's told the
virtual meeting he's confident australia
will be able to meet paris agreement
emission targets
without using carryover credits now
australia has promised to cut its 2005
emission levels
by up to 28 percent before 2030.
global emissions reductions we know are
essential for our
blue pacific our commitment to the paris
agreement has never wavered
we've made it we're reducing emissions
through practical clean energy
technology australia is very confident
that we will now achieve our 2030 target
without the need to draw on our
carryover credits
that australians earned from
overachieving on our kyoto era
commitments
townsville's water supply is critically
low after a rupture of a major pipeline
there now residents are being asked to
only use water for drinking
and to flush the toilet reporter chloe
shamiki has the details
crews have replaced a pipe that ruptured
at the city's main water treatment plant
yesterday
afternoon meantime residents are being
told to only use water
for drinking or flushing the toilet that
means
no showers no washing dishes or doing
laundry
and businesses are being told to
conserve as much water as possible
it's made it difficult for residents to
cool off during sweltering conditions
today
the extreme restrictions have been in
place since yesterday afternoon and are
expected to remain in place overnight a
council spokesperson
says it's expected to take at least 24
hours to replenish the city's critically
low water supplies
but that will only commence once testing
is successful
chloe schmicki abc news townsville
[Applause]
heading overseas the u.s supreme court
has dismissed president donald trump's
bid to overturn the election
a lawsuit filed by the texas attorney
general
sought to throw out voting results in
four pivotal states
the justices refused to let texas file
the lawsuit
challenging mr biden's wins in
pennsylvania georgia michigan and
wisconsin
the order clears those states to cast
their votes for mr biden in the
electoral college
next week with less than two weeks until
christmas
many european countries are poised to
tighten restrictions as covert 19 cases
soar
germany is headed for another national
lockdown with almost
30 000 new infections and 600 deaths
over two days
france has been due to lift restrictions
but the infection rate there
is nearly 14 000 a day england
is rolling out mass testing of secondary
school children
regardless of symptoms after the biggest
rise in cases among
11 to 18 year olds now the uk looks set
to leave the eu without a trade deal in
just under three weeks time
while brexit officially took place in
january the uk remains part of the eu
single market and customs union but as
the transition period comes to an
end talks have reached an impasse with
both sides
unable to reach on agreements to cover
more than one trillion
dollars in annual trade the argument
today
is about uh the terms on which
we trade with the european union and the
issue at the moment
is that they want the talks in brussels
are
stymied deadlocked because they want to
keep us
locked into a system by which every time
they change their laws we have to change
ours we don't think that's a brilliant
idea
a member of the hezbollah group has
sentenced has been sentenced to life in
prison
for the assassination of lebanon's
former prime minister
rafiq hariri the u.n backed tribunal
found salim ayash
guilty of conspiring to kill the former
lebanese prime minister
in a beirut bomb attack on his motorcade
in 2005
ayash has never been arrested and is
believed to be in hiding
21 people were also killed and more than
200 injured in the attack
the pandemic has left tourism industries
across the world on the brink of
collapse
but few countries have felt the impact
as much as nepal
visitors are a vital revenue stream and
bring in more than two billion dollars a
year
last year around two and a half million
tourists and mountaineers traveled there
but in 2020 so far only about 6 000
people have gone to the popular
destination
south asia correspondent